alright I have power is that time of the
day again at that time of the week even
it's that time of the week for the jas
core dev team weekly sync it's December
it's the third of December of 2018 the
hackpad is in that Schatz Jacob has
volunteered himself as note-taker thank
you very much please I just named to the
attendees list on the CAC pad and we'll
get started in a moment yeah also if you
haven't put your weekly update down then
please add it and it in and we will now
go for a round of updates see how
everyone has done this week what they
blocked on and what they're planning on
doing next week who is first on the list
Vasco is first on the list would you
like to give us your update sure hello
so last week I worked mainly in carrying
Ibanez overcooks I mean I've been s /
itchy ready for being merged this week I
fixed several reviews in the arts for
both of them and I also created danger
up tests to diagnose over the HD now we
have interrupts green for both of the P
arts and our and and the Hugo and Jacob
also at some reviews so we are on a good
way then I also during the the interrupt
tests for the HD I also found some
problems with new API for files and I'm
also fixing the interrupt tests for that
and I also worked in the HD a stress
test well last week I had intensive work
up to simulation tests now I also added
shared intensive tests for this week so
I want to get I been a super pups of a
9s or ADHD final merged I am also
working in the lipid to be human client
that will be used for the test bed in
interrupt I also have been reviewing PR
from John yeah stay there I want also to
get
to March this week and I also if I have
time I want to look like the been a
speck here that's all for me any
questions or comments I have a question
can you demo the DHT stress tests and/or
hands or something sure I can move I can
do it next week I think that would be
right
ok I will do it great I mean we will
have Jessica first release with the HTML
by default for Christmas 2018 s been a
good year cool and you have a question
for Vasco alright let's let's move on
who is next is volka
alright I have been working on yes um
like no they were about to be formats
stuff because like if you read the specs
and find out that they are not really
good or accurate so fixing a few things
they are just together with M Stephen um
and I also worked on starting to
implement new JavaScript IPO dat is just
to see if the the specs kind of really
work so it's not like a move you know
the super clear communication with just
like this and if there's any problems
I'm especially with take protocol
buffers which is kind of a peace and
justice works and this is also what I
will do next week and yeah also for them
called multi-format stuff yeah and going
through it and see if em like also the
transcript API is I think pretty bad if
you start putting new things so it's
really good that I do the prototype
see like where the poles are eventually
using them and they're pretty
inconsistent and yeah how to use yes
that's all any questions Foca
I can recommend anyone on the Jas team
hasn't gone and looked at the proposal
that Volkers added for IPO D API changes
then you should go and take a look
because it's red and super interesting
but also you can probably have to be
using it at some point soon so you might
as well contribute to it or at least
read it to know what's going to get
happen so yeah
cool thanks for Kurt
next person is is oh sorry any other
questions for Volker
no I see no hands cool it's me okay what
are they so yeah last week added some
CID version agnostic interrupt tests I
put a picture of the alias that got some
work to do but we can see that they it
works for go and we know that because
they have released a version which which
allows that so I just need to go ahead
and implement those things but now we
have some tests that prove when I'm
finished doing that so that's great
other things I did we renamed ipfs API
to ipfs HTTP client to better
communicate what it is the object api
reef actors that i talked about last
week were completed and merged in both
chase IVFs and the HTTP client I
released a chair so first HTTP clients
there is a quick fix basically if you've
got a quick multi adder in your and you
used the Jaso PFS api an old version of
it or eight version of it to kind of get
hold of some swarm swarm peers that are
using quick then it would have failed
because it didn't know that you know it
doesn't that is especially a fix for if
you don't have a
Multi in your in your in the codec table
if it's like a newer version newer one
comes out you're using an old version
then you can still you can still see
what appears you're connected to it
doesn't just fire so that's good it has
the object API changes and the files API
refactor I opened yeah pull request to
the interface datastore which I think
most of you commented on already so
thank you for that that's that's super
rad and for switching to like asa quite
tasty iterators and then i used that as
a base for doing the same thing to
datastore level which is kind of pretty
easy because level up have a promise
based API anyway so that's kind of fun
and then I did a whole bunch of reviews
my plan for the next week on the block
done anything my plan for next week or
this week is to implement the so now
I've got the tests for CID version
agnostic gets boots I can go ahead and
implement that stuff and I also wanted
to hopefully get round to implementing
the ad from star methods in JSI PMS in
time for the 0:34 release any questions
for me alright next person on the list
is Jacob can we please have you update
so a lot of work last week on the J's
let Peter be daemon so I've got an
initial branch of that going with
support for connecting and opening and
handling streams from the daemon I'm
also using the daemon work to experiment
with the Lippe to be async API because
there's a lot of stuff there we need to
do with like prefix streams and things
like that if we're gonna get rid of poll
streams so I'm doing some of that
experimenting there because we need it
anyway so I'll probably be leveraging
that and then bash go and I will look at
putting a proposal together for what
that would be and also the Lippe
WebSocket start run of a server over
three has been released so that also
improves the pure discovery startup time
because before it was like a 10-second
wait to get peers now when you start up
now when you connect you'll immediately
get the list of existing peers back so
that should be quicker so that's support
for pure pad work then one thing blocked
on is the NAP manager there's not
currently the jas the Jace team assigned
to that so I need that to finish up some
package list updates for a loopy TP this
week I will looking at an update the
flood sub 2 because it's woefully behind
on some of its dependencies so we'll get
that updated and then continue daemon
work and look at the what's needed to
finish up the EDT 501 9 key support for
keychain work and then I discovered
we've had like in WebSockets tower on
'view server memory leaks for a while I
think I found a culprit of that and a
socket IO pull stream stuff so I will
probably continue to investigate that as
well
any questions cool no questions but
looks of it Thank You Jacob next person
up is Hugo yes
so basically last week added Travis CI
config the approach guest is open and
have a look at its structures on the
circle see I also did some work on the
epuap one should be ready to go
everything is green on that on that one
reviewed a bunch of pork requests also
did some new fillies of IP FST CTL with
a new EFS HTTP client also start as a
request about the proposal regarding the
errors are we I will I would really love
you guys to review that
these it's basically a improvements on
just using the air calls as we've been
using it especially on lip HP please
review that read what's there and give
your feedback and also ever to pull
requests almost ready to go
reducing the bottle size on the API or
now the HTTP client and and for ipfs
repo I just need to figure out the
couple of top because some recent
commits changed some stuff that increase
the window size I need to figure out
that it should be really close to
finished and also I'm kind of blocked
here by another Baca quests not a
polygamist but like enabling this
experimental build on here I have the
issue there length so if you can look at
that too because it basically also
reduces the bundle size so it would be
great to have that's enabled by default
instead of the current one and this week
I'll continue the size work I need to go
through the smaller repos
and continue on their error codes
hopefully using the new approach I
proposed on the previous post requests
and also continue the EM Plex work with
I think it's raitis and a bunch of new
reviews so anyone is in questions
right
the experiment to build do you just need
a review on that the experimental build
basically it's already merged but it's
behind like a flag and just picture
opened that issue link there so people
can like test if everything works it
probably works but you should test it
anyway and get a feel of it if you think
it's ready to go we just remove the old
code and make that the default one just
one little difference between it between
two like the technical thing it's the
the name of the file the output file but
I can change that to the to be because
now we just do like index dot yes and
with the experimental deal it uses the
package name for the file name right if
it's easier to just continue with in
excelsis I'll just use that from now
just to get merged so just to get like
experimental being the default because I
really need it for the bundle size work
I'd really like to have some tests run
against the bills package thing if it's
an experimental build it's just
experimental because it's like different
configuration yeah any test would be
just testing like bubble and we're back
we're not going to test we've had a
bunch of problems with like browserify
and webpack like trimming our code
they're not meant to in and causing
issues well to be fair I think it's like
uglify so like it would be nice that
okay I take care take your point but it
would be nice to get to have some actual
test run again
those those minified created bill
artifacts that's probably a point for it
never call or something yeah
so my of a second question was like the
LEP TPM flex I think it rated horribly
got with that if have you done any any
like it got significantly into it or not
really cool or and go me through the
like a stuff like fuming out it's like I
could just let's have all those which at
least we need like my I produce and
stuff like that I mentioned some on some
pull requests and I'm starting to do
some tests to see if it's like you can
prove speed and stuff memory is it's at
least okay alright any questions any
other questions for Hugo ok cool moving
on we have Alex we have Nephilim Alex
next yes hi sorry so I've worked on
production setup for the benchmarks so
that's all in place now so I Britian
bunch of and small stuff and docker
files in doc will compose the circle CI
is in place so we're deploying
automatically master on any kind of
merge or commit to their environment and
there's also now an endpoint to actually
trigger a run what is still missing
there and it's also on my next is to
make it run on a specific commit and
also the feedback you get from that API
currently just gives you some random URL
and that URL should point to something
that is relevant to that test run
basically so that's what I'm going to be
working on a little bit more I'm not
blocked any questions
no no hey that sounds that sounds really
exciting
cool okay moving on then if there's no
questions we have Matteo you are muted
currently
hi not so much work on my site mainly
because there was a lot security
released going out and then follow-up
work so if you guessed what I've been
doing that stuff then however I do have
a question for Alan or maybe some
everybody there is an issue I'm blocked
on on an issue for doing anymore I did a
little bit of analysis on the whatever
we on our benchmarks data using new
clinic however I mean kind of whatever
we are benchmarking right now it's not
significant enough to produce good data
out of it we need to get a longer run so
proximally we need to transfer bigger
files so I just need some guidance on
what the best files to measure will be
the current the current numbers for our
benchmarks are pretty good so if those
are the size they decide that we are
benchmarking right now is one megabyte
an 1010 kilobyte which are probably
small the number city of God are kind of
good since we switched to use a pre
generated certificate and the
pre-generated Brito and and this type of
things so and then I am blocking on that
so Alan if you can trim in into that
thing then this we can plan to dig a
little bit more into the issue of
getting faster degeneration in place and
yeah more code reduce further study yeah
that's mean anymore anyway since yeah I
mean very big suggestions so I think
like you can find exactly what you're
looking for in this file so this is our
in drop tests and you can see at the top
okay yeah you guys missed a bunch of
sizes and directory structures because
then like like in every file every
directory goes into a graph exactly the
file so it's interesting to I could tune
these values and you already have the
code base here does it feels like pretty
much a copy-paste to the benchmarks and
running
yeah I'll we love a look at that yeah
also in the in the meeting we had on
Wednesday with the with Alex and Ron
there was a we like there's a whole
bunch of other kind of tests and
benchmarks that we'd like to kind of
look into so my job from them has been
to to create a list of those for you
guys including bigger files and things
like that
it that that task is at the top of my
stack now so I will do that tomorrow
morning first thing and say you'll have
that pretty same awesome thank you any
of the questions okay if not then there
was at some point I sent you folks an
email related to writing the go
benchmarks and I didn't get an answer
yet so I need an answer to that question
as soon as possible yes also coming I
think tomorrow okay perfect we talked
about it earlier today
okay perfect okay fantastic it's it's
good I just want to remind that there
was this thing that question injuring
because I think we have Alex for this
week and then on and off yeah ik echo
that is the main concern that cool okay
um all right so who was next
okay so wrong please so worked on mainly
just refactoring the test and kind of
putting into a runner a local runner so
and that allows you to easily add new
tests coming in so doing that I also
added the multi peer transfer so we're
using five nodes now for have the file
and then one's going to go get it so and
I'll doing that just also updated the
readme on how to add
new test I'm using it just a test
template that we have in place so I
think that was pretty much it just added
I think the format let's say was added
yeah test format on the output nothing
blocking me so this week I need to add
so we're going to be able to so for Alex
to be able to run on a certain branch I
need to make some changes also to little
uncle but that's that should be actually
pretty easy since I did the refactoring
then to be able to run sub test locally
individually and this is for the note
clinic and then also for the for some
more tests that Leitao needs i need to
we need to be able to have an option to
run these tests also without the
pre-generated keep you so right now
everything runs with pre-generated
but then put a flag in there to run it
without the pre-generated keys also and
then I forget through all that I'm gonna
go back to the browser benchmarks which
I've been on my next list but haven't
got to that yet so and that's it cool
thank you any questions were wrong
ok know who we've got Alex next the
other Alex can we have your updated pls
fine other Alex right so yeah i disabled
a freeloading config in FS because it
was you know the effect was that MP MP
my PFS was trying to upload all of NPM
to the gateways every minute which is
fun if it we don't know what it is is
because there's until we get the DHT
into Jo PFS we're just periodically
pushing your and the fest mode in into
the game right so that other they open
discover your content yeah so if you're
you're running NPM on ipfs locally as
world and music as interim effects so
that's kind of happening for users
so like UNIX as to metadata would be
really useful to not have that happen in
future but we're gonna go to the HD
internal with off anyway hurry a bunch
of performance improvements like not
listing files we don't have to because
obviously if you do that if we pull down
the node and if it's got lots and lots
of children and it gets really big and
really expensive the really big one was
not this not searching the entire HAMP
shard for a given leaf node which I
discovered UNIX FS was doing that was
super tedious because the hampt shards
that is npm is enormous
and it was actually loading every single
leaf node to find a single single file
so now it descends via working out what
the indices would be every given far
because the indices are stable based on
the input file name so it's relatively
easy to predict which branch you need to
follow to get to the far that you want
that is quite cool so MPI my professor
was ingesting NPM on Tigerfest at a
speed of about nor point naught naught
three modules per second now it's doing
it about null point eight modules per
second so it's gone from taking about
six months to ingest NPM to probably
about ten to twelve days which is quite
nice the download speeds have changed
from being like thirty seconds a module
to a few hundred milliseconds which is a
massive massive performance improvement
I mean so much if you've got a demo out
on stage on Friday which is cool because
I'm not going to you know it's not going
to take longer to install something then
I have the time for my talk and so
that's cool the other thing that I've
been doing is trying to get deep
requiring a full stream modules because
I noticed one of you guys okay I was to
try and make the bundle friend ipfs
smaller so I thought I'd help out and
you know in the only way that I could
I also added streaming methods to the LS
stuff in Emma's hat because at the
moment it just gives you back an array
of all the files when you say LS me a
directory which is bonkers even though
deep down its
so just a raise because you can node but
obviously if it's a shard then you get
lots and lots of nodes in this way it
will stream out and sort of like giving
you all of it and crashing your process
if the directory is too big
cool that's me I'm kind of not really
I'm prone blocked on a sparse array pull
request but not really because I
literally just open that I just knows it
was sorting every time you get
everything
doesn't look like it's necessary hey so
for this week I'm gonna be doing more
performance Ryan at all giving a talk
that's me any questions Michael yeah one
can I just get a pointer real quick to
the code where you're doing that
traversal into the hampt it's just we in
the new interfaces that we're building
for collections we'll want to be doing
that kind of stuff so I just want to
make sure that we have this kind of full
use case there the other thing is so
you're putting the full tarballs into
into ipfs have we looked at what kind of
performance profile it might look like
if we actually decompress the tarballs
but encoded them with rabbin because
most of what's in a lot of those
Tarbell's i think is the same stuff like
a especially across like a particular
package it's a lot of the same code if
we use wrapping I wonder if we would
actually reduce the overall storage and
especially the cache it increases
improve the cache at sorry if we
actually decompress the tar balls when
we stored them and then like maybe
recompress them on their way out to make
NPM work it sounds crazy but I think it
actually might be you know that makes a
lot of sense because when you show it
you know when you and break the falls
down into there no CID I'd possible
blocks and whatever most completely
right the changes between the given
module versions and generally can be
very small so you should be able to see
some pretty significant like savings and
s3 stores that were using for the whole
thing but to be honest like I've just
been concentrating on making it fast
rather than making it small but that
would be like for the next kind of thing
so there yeah I think it would make it
faster
in terms of cash hits right so it
wouldn't make initial gets faster
obviously probably make them slower but
um the the cash hits like once you've
ever installed a package any new version
of that package would probably come in
faster I would think yep yep I mean at
the lowest impact version of using the
ipfs on so mp1 O'Keefe s repo is just
specifying registry equals you know reg
feudal just like for this I so those
transfer speeds yeah super important
okay are there is there anything we can
do as a team to help you with your talk
or anything that you're doing now to
make your talk work so you can use the
repo the registry sorry use the registry
so that is your default registry and try
and set it on fire right you'll probably
Salome for hopefully
Wanko on fire as quickly as possible all
right you heard the man break the thing
and leash it cool all right
any I'm a really quick we are over time
by two minutes so any other real quick
questions or shall we just go okay cool
and all right thank you all for joining
us it's been a pleasure and we'll see
you again next week for another exciting
round of what the Jas core dev team did
last week what they blocked on and what
they'll do next week that's all thanks
ye